Hello and welcome.
In this lecture we're gonna be working on getting our responsibility for saving devolved to the actual
game objects that want to be saved so that for example this enemy he wants to be saved.
So he has got a saved Bill entity script on him which the save system will recognize and use to capture
his individual state and put it in a dictionary that then gets serialized.
Let's dive in and see how those components work so our saving system at the moment has a bit of a glaring
glaring problem which is that it knows too much at the moment it is has to know very specifically about
the fact that we have a player and the tag that this player has and we have a look in our saving system
class.
You can see that it's got this find with tag and it knows about the player tag so you couldn't just
drop this into another game.
If for example you didn't have a player tagged with tag and you wanted to save its position it knows
too much about your specific game and this becomes evident when we have to start remembering where all
the enemies were in the world.
For example like this suddenly your savings system has to know about all the enemies all the players
maybe all the doors or chests that you've opened.
All that information is just too much for one class to be handling.
So I wanted to change this into a you know nothing kind of system.
And the idea here is that the players and the enemies will on their game objects on their prefabs.
They will include something from the saving system.
They'll include a saleable entity which is a flag to the system saying hey I can be saved I'm an entity
in the world that knows how to be saved and will go a little bit further than this.
Even by making the individual components responsible for their own state.
So we don't have to worry about when we add a new piece of functionality how that's going to be saved
we don't have to go and change these several entities but that's for a later lecture.
For now we're just dealing with this how do we tag things as wanting to be saved in the scene and Lao
allowing those things to have their own responsibility for saving.
And this means that now the save system only has to rely on one thing these saved blend.
It can find all the safe balances in the scene ask them to save themselves and then store the values
into a big data structure basically sorted by some sort of identifier so it can say hey you identify
one you identify two three four and I know how to restore you when we come back into the scene I can
find you again and restore your specific state.
Now that part of the puzzle which I just explained requires us to revise the idea of a dictionary.
You may have come across a dictionary before you may not have come across a dictionary before it's very
simple.
It's basically a look up or an index of a book.
So the idea being that we've got some keys and some values and we want to find a value by giving it
a key very much like in the index of a book we've got a keyword and we want to find the page that it
refers to in this case with a book.
The key would be the keyword and the value would be the page in the book.
So the way we use a dictionary is with this long winded type.
You can see it has these angled brackets because it is a generic type.
And the idea is that we've got a dictionary that goes from the key type.
So this could be any type you like.
Often it is a smaller less information type so it could be a string and end a float something like that.
And then the value type which could be say a mono behavior.
Or it could be a saleable entity.
It could be the state of the same bland state for example and then dictionary is going to be the variable
name.
How do we use it.
Well the main things we do with a dictionary is we assign into the dictionary which is to set a new
key value relationship.
In this case we are setting the value key on the key to be pointing to this value over on the right
hand side and then the inverse of that is to look up in a dictionary where we just provide the key and
the value gets given back to us.
So that's the shape of the dictionary that we're going to be using.
Now let's have a look at how we can create this saleable entity as a starting point.
It's going to be under the saving system namespace.
So I'm gonna create a new file called saleable entity dot c s and then I can create a model behavior
and I'm going to stick that model behavior in a namespace called RPG dot saving the same namespace as
our saving system and then we've got a saleable entity.
Now as I said the saleable entity wants to react to stuff coming in from the saving system.
But first let's go over and see where we want to add it.
We've already said that we want it on all the enemies and we've already said we want it on the player.
So the logical place to put this is at the root of both those which is the character prefab in the character
prefab.
We can go ahead and add a saleable entity as a component on here.
And this just means that now every character that we plonk into the scene is going to be saleable all
the same system cares about it and wants to know what state it has so that it could restore it at a
later stage.
So let's have a look from the outside.
Then we can work out what methods we're going to need on the saleable entity at the top level.
We've got our savings a small loading system.
First of all let's think about saving what we want to do is we want to get some state that we can serialize
into our format.
So for that I am going to create a new function in here that is going to be capture state like so and
I'm just gonna go ahead and create it generate the method and you can see that it is generated it with
a return type of object and I think that's okay for now.
Let's go and put this a little bit further down the file and I'm going to get rid of the get.
Player transfer because we don't want to know this much information and at this stage we're going to
be removing the functionality to be able to save the location of the player.
That's all right.
We're going to reintroduce it in upcoming lectures.
But in the new architecture we also don't want to serialize and serialized vectors and hence we can
get rid of some of this dead code which is always good stuff.
You can get rid of dead code.
Amazing.
So now we don't need to capture our player transform we don't need to do this.
Converting of the serialized will position in that at all.
We just want to capture the state.
Okay.
That's pretty straightforward.
And the same goes on loading instead of loading in from and doing all this casting of the serialized
ball vector.
Well I'm just going to do is I am going to create a restore state function and that's going to take
on all the responsibility for restoring the state of the whole shebang.
The whole game and I'm gonna go ahead and generate that function to generate the restore state and I'm
just going to stick that below capture state and I'm going to rename its variable to state like so now
I want to wanted to throw and we try and run these so I'm just going to put in a return.
No.
At the moment for the capture state what we actually want to return here to the state of our entire
game is going to be a dictionary as I just said a look up table from the identifier of a particular
game object to the state.
Now we'll talk about identifiers in just a second but for us for now let's assume that they are going
to be strings.
So we want to create a new diction not directory but a dictionary.
And for that you may need a namespace which is going to be using sys collections dot generic like so
and then we are going to use this syntax that we've learnt on this slide so the key type is going to
be a string for the unique identifier and then the value type is just going to be object.
We don't care how the what what kind of object is the state that comes back from a saleable entity it's
just an object as long as we can serialize it which we'd find out at runtime.
Anyway we can't find out from the system at compile time so we're gonna create a dictionary that's going
to be a state and I'm just going to use a new dictionary String objects automatically giving me the
suggestion given I knew what type it was.
So this has created a new dictionary and I could store state into it by doing a state and then saying
like Hello.
That is my key and then I can store some value in which is like I don't know.
5 that's my state and then I can return this state and that's what's gonna go into the file because
the dictionary is a serial liable thing by C sharp standards so that will go into our save file just
fine but it's not very interesting is it the fact that we've got this state which is always the same.
No that's not interesting.
What we want to do is find all the serialized bow objects in the file and take their states and store
that in the dictionary.
So I'm going to do a for each and it's gonna be over the save all entities and I'll call it the saleable
like so and it's going to be in the collection.
What collection how we going to find these.
Well we're going to do a find objects of type saleable entity and then we are going to just call that
so all the saleable entities in the scene.
Remember this is only happening every time we save.
So I don't mind that finding all the objects can be not very fast so that's okay.
Saving in general is not very fast because we're going to the desk and that is quite slow operation
so in general saving is an expensive thing to do which is why we don't do it at every second of our
game.
So what we've got here is a for loop that goes over all the salable entities and what we want to do
is capture their state and stick it in the dictionary.
So let's go back to our save plenty and create some API for that.
The first thing we're going to want to know is what is the unique identifier of this site.
Let's see so on create a getter that's going to return a String and get unique identifier and we'll
worry in a second about how we're gonna get that unique identifier for now and is going to return something.
It's an empty string.
And the other thing we need is to get the state to capture the state of the stable entity.
So it's going to return an object because that state is an object.
And I'm just gonna call it capture state exactly the same as we had at the higher level and at the moment
it's going to return.
No but I'm also going to put a print statement in here saying capturing State 4 and then the unique
identifier so that we can see that this is working that all our state is getting captured.
So now I can call on the salable entity I can call several dots capture state.
And that's going to return my state object and I want to store that state object into the dictionary.
So it's going to be state then these square brackets and then the key which we've said is going to be
our unique identifier.
So salable dots unique identity dot get unique identifier is equal to and then the capture state so
in this way we have captured all the state in our scene in one fell swoop.
It's up to now the saleable entity to do the heavy lifting of figuring out what the state on its particular
entity actually is.
But that we are going to deal with in a later lecture for now.
This is enough.
We are storing it in to the dictionary and we want to go back the other way.
So for that to happen we're going to need a restore state on the single entity as well.
So this is going to say hey save bell and say here's your your object so restore state takes a object
or which is going to be our state like so and we don't know what type that object is but hopefully this
able entity will work it out.
So the it's going to restore the state needs to be a void return type of missing that.
And at the moment we're just going to again print out that instead of capturing the state we are restoring
the state for this unique identifier.
So that's all we're going to do in this lecture is getting them printing out.
That's going to be the challenge.
But first let me show you that because we in this restore state we are taking in an object because we
don't know yet.
It's a dictionary but we do know that what we're civilizing here is a dictionary.
So what we need to do is we need to a cast.
So we're going to have the dictionary and I can't call it the same thing as what's coming in here.
So I'm going to call this the the dictionary.
I'm going to call the state dict short for dictionary and then I am going to set it equal to the state.
But I'm going to have to cast it like we've done before.
So I'm going to have to use these round brackets to cast the state to a dictionary of key string and
return type object.
So that's going to make sure that in our state dictionary we can actually access it and look it up so
we can do stuff like state dict and then the square brackets and then look up some particular key in
there to get the object back that we are then going to call restore state on the saved Bill entity.
Now remember that the saved Bill entities already exist in the scene you don't have to create them all
we've got to do is update them so you can very much use a for loop that's like this.
It's just going to be the bill inside the for loop.
That is the interesting bit So your challenge is to call restore on although several entities.
So first of all check how many entities are being captured by going to the logs and printing it out
for example.
For me that would be done like basic over and hit play.
And then I go to hit save and I can see that in my console If I collapse my logs that it has called
Save on how many things.
Funnily enough it's not giving me a number.
If I collapse it's probably too large to fit on my particular scaling ratio.
But if I can just count them so I got 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 7 items in the scene that I want it to be restoring.
So that you can check for your own seeing how many entities are you capturing.
Fill out the restore method by this I mean the restore method at the saving system level.
So here we haven't got very much.
This is what you've got to do.
Like so.
And then you should ensure that you're getting the right number of restored namely that it is going
through all the saver Bill entities in the scene and restoring them so pose a video and have a go at
this challenge okay.
Welcome back.
So let's give this a shot.
As I said basically we're doing the same for each because the stable entities already exist.
We don't have to go about creating them.
So I am just going to be finding a stable entity and then I want to look it up in our dictionary look
it up in our index.
So we've got a date dict which is a dictionary and I can look it up by using the unique identifier of
our saver bill which we're going to fill out at a later date in the next lecture.
And then from this unique identifier we are going to go and look it up and basically restore it.
So you're going to do a saleable dot restore state and the state is going to take.
Is this state dict state like so.
Okay so let's see whether that's going to be calling restore state enough times.
Go ahead and hit play.
I'm going to save.
I'm going to hit restore with the load and you can see it's doing restore state forward lots of things
that see one two three four five six seven seven times.
Okay so that's basically saying it's going through the right number of times now is it restoring to
the right thing.
Probably not.
It's probably going to be taking the same state each time from the state dictionary because our unique
identifier isn't very unique at all.
So we could actually fix that a little bit but we not without knowing a little bit more about unique
identifier.
So that's gonna be the subject of the next lecture to see how we can actually generate these unique
identifiers and make them make sure that they are the same between loadings of a game so they don't
get regenerated every time we load our game because obviously that wouldn't help us with restoring.
Okay I'll see you in the next lecture.